# My 41189 Reflective Portfolio

# Week 3

## What have I learnt this week?
This third week I learnt how models shape the way that people behave in various situations-these include rational, behavioural and rule-based. I also learnt how people decide, conceal or reveal information, how they add value and power, as well as how people solve issues in groups. This builds on from the previous lesson, where we learnt the science behind model thinking, and the wisdom of the crowd theory. 

## What do I 'now know' that I did not before?
This week’s learning’s have really surprised me in terms of how people operate in general. But I do know that quite a lot of decisions come with multi-criterions such as buying a house as you need to decide your borrowing limit, location, type of house style etc.  Even higher education can come with multi criterions- Does the field have good job prospects? You need to get a good ROI, or else it’s wasted a bit. Outside those major decisions, decision making in any shape or form, is just something we gotta do for ourselves. However, it can create decision fatigue or cognitive dissonance, where are too many choices and alternatives involved, which is it is crucial to know when to narrow it down, as we can’t go around trying to make up our mind forever, life is too short-as some point I learned you need to act. 

This is why it helps to have models make the decision-making process, that much clearer for us, so we can take effective action. Another thing I now know is that modelling looks at decision making for 2 reasons: normative which enables us to make better decisions, or positive in order to find out why people make the decisions that they do.  Furthermore, Decision trees are useful when there are a lot of options. We can also use them to view the world subjectively from another’s eyes. 

Rational modelling assumes that people behave such as to optimise for their goals, which I find true for the most part, as the saying goes “In for a penny, in for a pound”, meaning that when you are once involved in pursuing your goals, you shouldn’t stop at half-measures, in other words, you must see it through. There is an objective function (market share, votes, profits, etc.). People then optimise to increase it. Behavioural modelling looks at people as close as possible to how they really behave i.e. include their biases and heuristics. Don’t assume they are rational, observe how they behave (and in fact they behave irrational in predictive ways), and then use those observations to predict, as we should do in life-see people as they are. Additionally, Rule-based models use psychology to figure out certain rules that people seem to be following and how this predicts that they will act. For example, in the Schelling segregation model, people decided to move or stay depending purely on how many like-minded individuals lived around them, *'Birds of a feather flock together'* as the proverbial saying goes. There are 4 different variations: the rules can be fixed or adaptive, and the choice can be decision-based (sole agent) or a game (multiple agents). We should know the rules, so we can better break them effectively when needed. Fr. Richard Rohr argues that )*'it is much easier to begin life rather conservative or traditional'* than it is to be raised without structure and limits. We transcend what doesn’t work, and include what does. We therefore develop our own perspectives, without losing sight of tradition. 

I also now know that there are 3 types of probability: 
-	Classical: Academic probability where we write in the mathematical sense what the probability is, e.g. rolling die. This is deductive. 
-	Frequency: Counting the quantities of specific outcomes, e.g. how often does said outcome happen? Monte Carlo-I remember it being referred to as a gambling capital of Europe; analysis would be a good example—counting things up in a historic time series. This is the inference here. I heard to possibly succeed in gambling, one’s skills in determining probability has to be strong
-	Subjective: Cases where we need to guesstimate, i.e. assign subjective probabilities as to what outcome we’ll think, will occur. 

Signalling models acknowledge and recognise the conditions under which people send costly signals to reveal information about themselves or what type they are. A person could signal wealth by purchasing something from a luxury brand like Coco Chanel, Gucci, physical stamina by being in the elite special military forces i.e. SAS and SEALS, or empathy for a cause by performing charitable works. There is also a discrete signalling model, an individual can either send a signal or not-this could give off mixed signals, which make it harder to interpret what’s going on with someone. Individuals differ in their costs of sending the signal. For signals to function, they must be costly or verifiable.  In discrete signals:
-A person decides whether to take an action or not-walks the walk or talks the talk
- Two types of people: weak and strong in physicality, mentally, emotionally
- The cost of sending a signal depends on the person’s type 
- The cost is low for strong types, high for weak types 
- The model supports three types of outcomes: pooling, where everyone sends the same signal; separating, where each type sends a unique signal; and partial pooling, where some types separate and others do not.


## What insights have I gained?
The insights I gained from this week’s content are that through changing the way we view the problem, then we can arrive at optimal solutions, no wonder experts say to change your mindset and be intentional about them. Cultivate a growth mindset. Diverse perspective + diverse heuristics leads to teams obtaining better solutions. Perspectives → Heuristics → Team diversity → Recombination = Innovation. Furthermore, decision trees are used when you don’t know the odds in uncertain situations. They’re a makeshift tool when you don’t have actual certainties or probabilities to work with, you instead make do with what you have.

In “Thinking, Fast and Slow”, a book by Danny Kahnemann, makes the point that we have two different types of thinking systems, one fast that is intuitive, and one slow that uses rigorous thinking. Rules of thumb, which I think can be referred to as common-sense-as they’ve been countlessly tried and tested; often outperform the most sophisticated strategies. You always have to look at the practicalities behind theories and ideas.  Multi-criterion decision making and spatial decision making are related to the notion of comparison from features and comparison by distance, i.e. judging how similar things are by comparing how much they share and how far apart they are. Just like the saying, “Distance lends enchantment to the view.” We have certainty & full information. In the cases where we don’t have the option of classical- or frequency-based approaches, we need to resort to subjective reasoning, but this is best supported by a model.  We need to know the Value of Information: How much is the information of knowing the outcome worth to us? 

Signalling to reveal status has always been a part of human nature. I have known this in the back of my mind, but it didn’t really hit home until this lesson. Conspicuous consumption endures because we care what others think of us, and what we consume signals our status to others. We do not see others in their entirety, so we rely on what they wear, drive, and consume to make inferences about their hidden attributes-so nobody is really above judgement. The meaning and significance we attach to something is felt in direct proportion to the expense with which it is communicated. Essentially, costliness carries meaning. No wonder people say that “Everything comes at a cost. Just what are you willing to pay for it?” This reminds me of the law of sacrifice. The law of sacrifice says that you cannot get something you want, without giving up something in return. In order to attain something you believe is of greater value, you must give up something you believe is of lesser value. The fantasy that you can have whatever you’d like without ever paying for it is an incredibly seductive fantasy. But it is only a fantasy. There is always a price to pay. Consciously, we understand this law. Subconsciously, not so much. 
Another insight that I have gained from this week’s lesson, is that an individual’s Shapley value relates to their average added contribution to the coalitions as they form. It is a measure of added value.  An individual’s LOTB value could be the better measure of power in situations where a group has already been formed, as that measures how much each individual could get through assumedly credible threat. 

## What are (my/the) perceived strengths and weaknesses that I have observed?
For me, my perceived strengths are that I am excited to meet new people and learn along with them, but my perceived weaknesses are that I’m a bit socially awkward and don’t know how to deal with people in some situations, as I believe I’d do something wrong in terms of not creating a good impression. 

## What were the challenges I encountered/observed and how well (did I/my team) handle them?
The challenges I observed this week are that people are complex in the way they operate themselves in various situations-it can be hard to keep up with them. Everyone has different perspectives, and thus ways of getting things done or arriving at a particular conclusion. They can be handled by actively listening to what each member has to say, and accepting that not everyone’s thoughts would always run in tandem with each other. Everything needs to be done for the good of the team. 

## What would I do better next time and with what anticipated results?
I would learn to delve deeper into how people’s thought processes work whenever they make a decision among the alternatives surrounding them. I would also adjust my unrealistic expectations so that I see them for what they’re capable of doing at the moment, nothing more and nothing less. I would learn to give them the benefit of the doubt. 

## What theory proved to be useful and why? What have I learnt from this?
The theory I feel that has proved to be most useful for this week is the no lunch theorem, where all algorithms that look for the same number of solutions with the goal of locating the increased value of a function as defined on a finite set; they all perform exactly the same when averaged over all the other possible functions. 
